the United Nations Secretary General
Antonio gutes as we turn to the Middle
East now has visited the Rafa border
crossing and has made a renewed call for
an immediate ceasefire in Gaza his call
comes as the Hamas run Health Ministry
in Gaza said 19 people waiting for Aid
were killed by Israeli forces Israel has
denied firing on the crowd Mr gutes said
it is time to silence the guns and his
words and stop the nightmare describing
the ongoing loss of life in Gaza as a
moral outrage and called on Israel to
give Total unfettered Access to
humanitarian Goods throughout the
territory it's time to truly flood Gaza
with life-saving Aid the choice is clear
either surge or
starvation let's choose the side of help
the side of Hope and the right side of
history that was Antonio gutes well
let's speak to our Middle East
correspondent yolan Nell who is in
Jerusalem for us hi yoland thank thanks
for joining now uh what how has the
mounting pressure on Israel uh to give
more Aid to Gaza allow more access to
Aid uh been received by
Israel I mean we have seen changes in
the past few weeks with Israel opening
up a new border crossing in the north of
the Gaza Strip in particular we've seen
the start of this um Marin route um
bringing Aid in by sea and of course the
air drops continuing um over the Gaza
Strip but still um massive Aid shortages
being reported now Israel has hit back
against those comments by Mr gutes the
foreign minister was very critical of
him um calling him um somebody who had
allowed the UN to become in his words an
anti-semitic and anti-israel body you
had Kat part of the Israeli defense
Ministry that really um oversees uh The
Crossings in into the Gaza Strip um
putting out a picture which it said
showed um a lot of Aid that was awaiting
distribution uh by the UN inside uh
inside Gaza so uh the Israeli claim is
it's really the um the speed of
distribution problems with that on the
the UN side and by Aid agencies that is
to blame here um but yes this overall
question has not gone away I mean it was
very powerful uh the UN Secretary
General standing on the Egyptian side of
the raffer crossing next to a long line
of lorries backed up there which have
got you know life saving Aid that is so
desperately needed on the other side in
Gaza and your land meanwhile there are
still calls for ceasefire in various uh
parts of the world what progress have we
seen if any when it comes to the talks
mediated by
Qatar so those indirect talks are
continuing um in Doha you have um
Israeli negotiators there Hamas
negotiators is there and you have the
catties the Egyptians and the us all
involved in the mediation effort uh what
we've heard from an Israeli official is
that the US has put forward what they're
calling a bridging proposal um basically
uh to try to close the gap between the
two sides on on a deal on a formula for
how many um Palestinian prisoners in
Israeli jails would be released for each
of um some 40 Israeli hostages that it's
proposed would be released by Hamas as
part of a new deal we haven't yet heard
um a response from Hamas on that it's
discouraging that um the top Israeli
negotiators are said to have left Doha
now um awaiting that uh response and we
heard from a Palestinian official who is
very close uh to the talks that uh still
these deep differences remain between
the two sides I mean the overall main
sticking point is that Hamas wants
Israel to completely withdraw its troops
from Gaza it wants any deal basically to
pave the way to a complete end uh to the
war where Israel is Con saying is saying
that this really has to be um a
temporary ceasefire that's being talked
about and that in the end it wants the
water to resume so that it can
completely dismantle Hamas and your land
meanwhile we've been reporting on
protests weekly protests in Tel Aviv uh
what more can you tell us about
those these protests you feel they're
getting more and more desperate there
are a number of people who arrested by
Israeli police um last night accused of
sort of disturbing um public Ord the
families of the hostages really just
want a deal to be done now to bring
their loved ones home and they want a
deal to involve all of the hostages it's
thought um that there are about 130
hostages remaining in the Gaza Strip
already um the Israeli defense officials
have said they think about more than 30
of those have been killed have died in
captivity there's another disturbing
video that's been put out um by Hamas in
the past day um where it says that um a
hostage has died because of starvation
and because of the lack of supplies
getting into Gaza that's all just going
to add to the worry and the public
pressure on the Israel government to
come up with a deal all right yolan
thank you so much for that update